# Origin Categories

The origin variable records the type of organization from which the rebel group emerged. In many cases organizations do not seamlessly transition to violence. Rather, elites from a group elect to launch a rebellion, and recruit partially or entirely from elsewhere. As it is often difficult to discern the origins of rank-and-file members, I code group origins on the basis of their leadership. I account for the extent to which the new rebel group overlaps with the predecessor organization with two variables: "parent.org.subset", which codes whether only a portion of the parent group joined the rebellion, and "other.sources" (COMING SOON), which codes whether a group draws membership from sources other than the origin group.

The categories of origin groups were derived inductively, so as to exhaustively capture all real world possibilities. The categories are meant to be descriptive, and allow for maximum flexibility rather than imposing a particular theoretical framework on the data. The categories are described below:

- **Splinter** These organizations emerge from pre-existing violent groups, and differ from their predecessor in structure (i.e. a group that simply changes its name or objectives would not be coded as a new group). All groups coded as splinter organizations by UCDP are included here. Most splinter organizations are factions of existing rebel groups that deliberately choose to break away and form a separate group (e.g. Red Flag faction of the Communist Party of Burma), though a few were expelled by the parent organization. Also included are groups that form from the remnants of rebel groups who were recently inactive due to defeat or demobilization, yet do not replicate the parent organization to such an extent as to be a direct continuation.

- **Alliance** These organizations are coalitions of two or more pre-existing violent groups. All groups coded by UCDP are placed in this category, as well as many other not identified by UCDP. Groups that were inactive for a period before the current round of fighting are considered alliances.

- **Militia** Militias are groups that are armed but have few or no political aims. In practice, this means groups that were previously violent, but do not appear in a UCDP conflict against the government. Most often these groups form to defend an ethnic group or community.

- **Military Faction** Military factions are a portion of the governmental armed forces acting agains their own government without authorization. The vast majority of coup attempts derive from military factions, but a substantial number of sustained rebellions do as well. Military commanders who leave the government and recruit soldiers from outside the military are also included here. I consider cases where a government official uses government forces to challenge for control of the regime a coup, while a government official using non-governmental forces is a rebellion.

- **Government Faction** These organizations have leadership who previously served in the government. In some cases the rank-and-file of these groups may come from the government as well, for instance if the police turn against the government. In other cases government leaders mobilize their party or other social connections to build a rebel group.

- **Political Party** Political parties are defined broadly here. 
Any organization that has clear political aims but is not initially violent is included. Organizations that produce programmatic platforms and contest elections are unsurprisingly included. However, as many civil wars occur under regimes that are not particularly democratic, participation in elections is not a requisite for this category. Some groups attempt to run in elections and resort to arms after being barred from doing so. Others, including many Communist parties, have most of the attributes of a political party but turn violent without first attempting to work through non-violent channels. Neither is a broad platform required; special interest/advocacy groups focusing on a narrow set of issues are also included. However, single-issue organizations advocating secession are placed in a separate category.

- **Regional Government** A number of secessionist movements have been led by organizations that previously comprised most or all of the subnational government in a region. Most of the secession movements in former Soviet republics fall into this category.